cicd.md, before:

# What is CI/CD tools in DevOps?

CI/CD is a method to frequently deliver apps to customers by introducing automation into the stages of app development and visualized as a pipeline. The main concepts attributed to CI/CD are continuous integration, continuous delivery, and continuous deployment. 


# CI - continuous integration

Continuous integration is an automation process for developers. New code changes to an app are regularly built, tested, and merged to a shared repository. It’s a solution to the problem of having too many branches of an app in development at once that might conflict with each other. Every time a new PR is merged to the trunk, if automated testing discovers a conflict between new and existing code, CI makes it easier to fix those bugs quickly.


# CD - continuous delivery or continuous deployment

Continuous delivery usually means a developer’s changes to an application are automatically bug tested and uploaded to a repository (like GitHub or a container registry), where they can then be deployed to a live production environment by the operations team. It’s an answer to the problem of poor visibility and communication between dev and business teams. The purpose of continuous delivery is to ensure that it takes minimal effort to deploy new code.

Continuous deployment can refer to automatically releasing a developer’s changes from the repository to production, where it is usable by customers. Reduces manual processes that slow down app delivery. 

<img style='width: 800px; background-color:white' src="./images/cicd.png" />


# Advantages
- Rapid delivery - Save lot of time in Integrations & deployment
- Early detection of bugs/exceptions using CI
- PR can be merged faster and more often
- Reduce human error 
- Configurable workflow

# Downside
- Lot of upfront investment interms of time and cost
- Automated tests need to be written to accommodate a variety of testing and release stages in the CI/CD pipeline
- Infrastructure cost 
- Require Devops Engineer who understands entire CI/CD  


# Common CI/CD tools

Beyond Jenkins and Tekton Pipelines, other open source CI/CD tools you may wish to investigate include:

- <a href='https://spinnaker.io/'>Spinnaker</a>, a CD platform built for multi-cloud environments.
- <a href='https://www.gocd.org/'>GoCD</a>, a CI/CD server with an emphasis on modeling and visualization.
- <a href='https://concourse-ci.org/'>Concourse</a>, "an open-source continuous thing-doer."



Public cloud providers who offer CI/CD solutions
- <a href="https://circleci.com/">CircleCI</a>
- <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/">CodeBuild,CodeDeploy,CodePipeline</a>
- <a href="https://about.gitlab.com/">GitLab</a>
- <a href="https://travis-ci.com/">Travis CI</a>
- <a href="https://www.atlassian.com/software/bamboo">Atlassian Bamboo</a>

Few tools for configuration management & application-deployment tool, enabling infrastructure as code. That means they are designed to deploy, configure and manage servers.
- <a href="https://www.ansible.com/">Ansible</a> 
- <a href="https://www.chef.io/">Chef</a> 
- <a href="https://puppet.com/">Puppet</a>
- <a href="/en/topics/containers/what-is-docker">Docker</a> 
- Container orchestration (<a href="/en/topics/containers/what-is-kubernetes">Kubernetes</a>)

Commit message:

few more changes to cicd file

cicd.md, after:

# What is CI/CD tools in DevOps?

CI/CD is a method to frequently deliver apps to customers by introducing automation into the stages of app development and visualized as a pipeline. The main concepts attributed to CI/CD are continuous integration, continuous delivery, and continuous deployment. 


# CI - continuous integration

Continuous integration is an automation process for developers. New code changes to an app are regularly built, tested, and merged to a shared repository. It’s a solution to the problem of having too many branches of an app in development at once that might conflict with each other. Every time a new PR is merged to the trunk, if automated testing discovers a conflict between new and existing code, CI makes it easier to fix those bugs quickly.


# CD - continuous delivery or continuous deployment

Continuous delivery usually means a developer’s, changes to an application are automatically bug tested and uploaded to a repository (like GitHub or a container registry), where they can then be deployed to a live production environment by the operations team. It’s an answer to the problem of poor visibility and communication between dev and business teams. The purpose of continuous delivery is to ensure that it takes minimal effort to deploy new code.

Continuous deployment can refer to automatically releasing a developer’s changes from the repository to production, where it is usable by customers. Reduces manual processes that slow down app delivery. 

<img style='width: 800px; background-color:white' src="./images/cicd.png" />


# Advantages
- Rapid delivery - Save lot of time in Integrations & deployment
- Early detection of bugs/exceptions using CI
- PR can be merged faster and more often
- Reduce human error 
- Configurable workflow

# Downside
- Lot of upfront investment interms of time and cost
- Automated tests need to be written to accommodate a variety of testing and release stages in the CI/CD pipeline
- Infrastructure cost 
- Require Devops Engineer who understands entire CI/CD  


# Common CI/CD tools

Beyond Jenkins and Tekton Pipelines, other open source CI/CD tools you may wish to investigate include:

- <a href='https://spinnaker.io/'>Spinnaker</a>, a CD platform built for multi-cloud environments.
- <a href='https://www.gocd.org/'>GoCD</a>, a CI/CD server with an emphasis on modeling and visualization.
- <a href='https://concourse-ci.org/'>Concourse</a>, "an open-source continuous thing-doer."



Public cloud providers who offer CI/CD solutions
- <a href="https://circleci.com/">CircleCI</a>
- <a href="https://aws.amazon.com/codepipeline/">CodeBuild,CodeDeploy,CodePipeline</a>
- <a href="https://about.gitlab.com/">GitLab</a>
- <a href="https://travis-ci.com/">Travis CI</a>
- <a href="https://www.atlassian.com/software/bamboo">Atlassian Bamboo</a>

Few tools for configuration management & application-deployment tool, enabling infrastructure as code. That means they are designed to deploy, configure and manage servers.
- <a href="https://www.ansible.com/">Ansible</a> 
- <a href="https://www.chef.io/">Chef</a> 
- <a href="https://puppet.com/">Puppet</a>
- <a href="/en/topics/containers/what-is-docker">Docker</a> 
- Container orchestration (<a href="/en/topics/containers/what-is-kubernetes">Kubernetes</a>) 


# Docker 

Docker is container based technology and containers are just user space of the operating system. At the low level, a container is just a set of processes that are isolated from the rest of the system, the containers running share the host OS kernel.

A Virtual Machine, on the other hand, is not based on container technology. They are made up of user space plus kernel space of an operating system. Under VMs, server hardware is virtualized. Each VM has Operating system (OS) & apps. It shares hardware resource from the host.
<img style='width: 800px' src="./images/docker.png" />
<img style='width: 300px' src="./images/vm.png" />

`Dockerfile` is a simple text file that contains the commands a user could call to assemble an image. 

`Docker image` is a read-only template that contains a set of instructions for creating a container that can run on the Docker platform

`Docker Container` is a runtime instance of an image. First we create an image (a specification) and then to build and run this image to get a container.

`Docker Compose` is a tool for defining and running multi-container Docker applications. Docker compose is for orchestrating multiple containers.

<img style='width: 300px' src="./images/docker-flow.png" />

Benifits
- Multiple workloads can run with 1 OS unlike VM's who required a complete OS
- Enables more efficient use of system resources
- Enables faster software delivery cycles
- Docker is a perfect match for microservices architecture
- Environment agnostic - all dependent packages are bundled up in an Image and can be run in any environment
- Reduced IT management resources, reduced size of snapshots
- Quicker spinning up apps, reduced & simplified security updates
